deliverable items according to the schedule set forth in the Scope of Services, the COMMISSION may
delay payment and/or terminate this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section 4 of this
Agreement.
F. No payment will be made prior to approval of any work, nor for any work performed prior to approval
of this Agreement.
G. CONSULTANT shall not exceed milestone cost estimates as shown in Exhibit B, except with the prior
written approval of the Contract Manager.
H. The CONSULTANT will be reimbursed after receipt by the COMMISSION’s Contract Manager of
itemized invoices. Invoices shall be submitted no later than 45calendar days after the performance of
work for which the CONSULTANT is billing. Invoices shall be mailed to the COMMISSION’s
Contract Manager at the following address:
SCCRTC, 1523 Pacific Ave, Santa Cruz, CA, 95060
The invoices must include the following information:
1. Labor (staff name, hours charged, hourly billing rate, current charges and cumulative
charges) performed during the billing period by task;
2. Itemized expenses incurred during the billing period;
3. Total invoice/payment requested;
4. Total amount previously paid under this Agreement;
5. Report of expenditures by CONSULTANT and subconsultants for each task and subtask
or milestone and estimated percentage completion by such divisions of work;
6. Written progress reports, in a format to be mutually agreed upon, that is sufficiently
detailed for the Contract Manager to determine if the CONSULTANT is performing to
expectations and is on schedule; provides communication of interim findings; addresses
any difficulties or special problems encountered, so remedies can be developed; and other
information as requested by COMMISSION.
7. CONSULTANT's final invoice must be submitted within 60-calendar days after
acceptance of the CONSULTANT’s work by the Contract Manager.
I. For personnel subject to prevailing wage rates as described in the California Labor Code, all salary
increases, which are the direct result of changes in the prevailing wage rates are reimbursable.
3. TERM. This Agreement shall take effect on (DATE); contingent upon prior approval by the
COMMISSION governing board, and the CONSULTANT shall commence work after notification to
proceed by the COMMISSION’S Contract Manager. The Agreement shall end on (DATE), unless earlier
terminated or extended by contract amendment. The CONSULTANT is advised that this Agreement is not
binding and enforceable until it is fully executed and approved by the COMMISSION's board.
4. EARLY TERMINATION.
A. COMMISSION may terminate this Agreement for its convenience any time, in whole or part, by giving
CONSULTANT thirty-day (30-day) written notice thereof. Within thirty days of the COMMISSION's
receipt of CONSULTANT's final billing, COMMISSION shall pay CONSULTANT its allowable costs
incurred to date of termination and those allowable costs determined by COMMISSION to be
reasonably necessary to effect such termination. Thereafter, CONSULTANT shall have no further
claims against COMMISSION under this Agreement.
B. COMMISSION may terminate this Agreement for CONSULTANT's default if a federal or state
proceeding for the relief of debtors is undertaken by or against CONSULTANT, or CONSULTANT's
Page 2