principal, or if CONSULTANT or CONSULTANT's principal makes an assignment for the benefit of
creditors, or if CONSULTANT breaches any term(s) or violates any provision(s) of this Agreement and
does not cure such breach or violation within ten (10) days after written notice thereof by
COMMISSION. CONSULTANT shall be liable for any and all reasonable costs incurred by
COMMISSION as a result of such default, including but not limited to reprocurement costs of the same
or similar services defaulted by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.
C. CONSULTANT may terminate this Agreement by giving the COMMISSION at least one hundred and
twenty (120) days advance written notice. CONSULTANT shall be liable for any and all reasonable
costs incurred by COMMISSION as a result of such default, including but not limited to reprocurement
costs of the same or similar services defaulted or not provided by CONSULTANT under this
Agreement.
5. INDEMNIFICATION FOR DAMAGES, TAXES AND CONTRIBUTIONS.
CONSULTANT shall exonerate, indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the COMMISSION (which for the
purpose of this Agreement shall include, without limitation, its officers, agents, employees and volunteers)
from and against:
A. Any and all claims, demands, losses, damages, defense costs, or liability of any kind or nature which
COMMISSION may sustain or incur or which may be imposed upon it for injury to or death of persons,
or damage to property which arise out of, pertain to, or relate to CONSULTANT’S negligence,
recklessness, or willful misconduct under the terms of this Agreement. Such indemnification includes
any damage to the person(s), or property(ies) of CONSULTANT and third persons.
B. Any and all Federal, State and Local taxes, charges, fees, or contributions required to be paid with
respect to CONSULTANT and CONSULTANT’S officers, employees and agents engaged in the
performance of this Agreement (including, without limitation, unemployment insurance, social security
and payroll tax withholding).
6. INSURANCE. CONSULTANT, at its sole cost and expense, for the full term of this Agreement, and any
extensions thereof, shall obtain and maintain at minimum compliance with all of the following insurance
coverage(s) and requirements. Such insurance coverage shall be primary coverage as respects
COMMISSION and any insurance or self-insurance maintained by COMMISSION shall be excess of
CONSULTANT’S insurance coverage and shall not contribute to it.
If CONSULTANT utilizes one or more subconsultants in the performance of this Agreement,
CONSULTANT shall obtain and maintain Independent CONSULTANT’s Insurance as to each subconsultant
or otherwise provide evidence of insurance coverage from each subconsultant equivalent to that required of
CONSULTANT in this Agreement.
A. Types of Insurance and Minimum Limits
1) Workers’ Compensation in the minimum statutorily required coverage amounts. This insurance
coverage shall not be required if the CONSULTANT has no employees and certifies to this fact by
initialing here .
2) Automobile Liability Insurance for each of CONSULTANT’S vehicles used in the performance of
this Agreement, including owned, non-owned (e.g. owned by CONSULTANT’S employees), leased
or hired vehicles, in the minimum amount of $1,000,000 combined single limit per occurrence for
bodily injury and property damage. This insurance coverage shall not be required if vehicle use by
the CONSULTANT is not a material part of performance of this Agreement and CONSULTANT and
COMMISSION both certify to this fact by initialing here / .
Page 3